                                                         CS250
                                                  Assignment 0906

Hengyi Li

Problem 1:
Give a command that would let you easily identify the state file with 
the largest number of bytes.

Answer:
$ wc -c * | sort -n | tail -n 2 | head -1

The reason for this is that the -c option causes wc to count the bytes of 
file, while argument * is refers to all the file in current directories. The 
| metacharacter makes it as a pipeline and pass the result to sort 
command. The -n option causes sort to sorting the result as ascending order.
And | metacharacter makes the sorting result as a pipeline passed to tail 
command with option -n and a argument 2. Which means output the last part of 
files, option -n with argument 2 stands for output the last 2 lines, the 
reason why print last 2 lines because that the last line is the total size of 
the file. The | metacharacter makes pipeline pass it to head command, and it 
has a option -1 stands for only print the first lines. Taken together, they 
cause the output to appear as the file that has the largest number of bytes, 
which is the result asked for.

Just to be more clearer, as you run this command, you will expected to get 
this result of output: 1374 California, which is the largest number of bytes 
in the state file.


Problem 2:
Give a command that would let you easily identify the state file with 
the largest number of lines.

Answer:
$ wc -l * | sort -n | tail -n 2 | head -1

The reason for this is that the -l option causes wc to count the lines of 
file, while argument * is refers to all the file in current directories. The 
| metacharacter makes it as a pipeline and pass the result to sort 
command. The -n option causes sort to sorting the result as ascending order.
And | metacharacter makes the sorting result as a pipeline passed to tail 
command with option -n and a argument 2. Which means output the last part of 
files, option -n with argument 2 stands for output the last 2 lines, the 
reason why print last 2 lines because that the last line is the total size of 
the file. The | metacharacter makes pipeline pass it to head command, and it 
has a option -1 stands for only print the first lines. Taken together, they 
cause the output to appear as the file which has the largest number of lines,
which is the result asked for.

Just to be more clearer, as you run this command, you will expected to get 
this result of output: 138 California, which is the largest number of lines 
in the state file.

Problem 3:
Explain in English what the following command does, and explain the full
implications of the command for foo and for users of the system. 
Be sure to explain fully for the owner, a member of the file’s group 
who is not the owner, and for a user who is not in the file’s group.
$ chmod 504 foo

Answer:
Suppose we have a plain file named foo and has the permission as follows:
-rw-r--r-- 1 hl3265 student 0 Aug 31 13:01 foo
This means the file foo is only the owner can read and write, cannot execute, 
a member of the file’s group who is not the owner and the user who is not in 
the file’s group can only read this file.

Now we run the command chmod 504 foo we get following result:
-r-x---r-- 1 hl3265 student 0 Aug 31 13:01 foo
Which means the chmod command changed the file foo into the owner
of this file can read and execute but cannot write, the member of the file's 
group who is not the owner cannot do anything with the file 
and the user who is not in the group can only read the file.  

Problem 4:
Consider the following set of commands:
     $ ls -ld states
     drwxrwxr-x 2 jbeck jbeck 4096 Aug 23 11:00 states
     $ chmod 777 states
     $ ls -ld states 
     drwxrwxrwx 2 jbeck jbeck 4096 Aug 23 11:00 states
Explain in English the implications of this command and why the shell is
programmed to particularly highlight the directory name after the command
has been issued.
 
Answer:
The first command "ls -ld states" is only list the information about 
directories states with long listing format. 

The second command "chmod 777 states" is to set the file permission of the 
directory named states to read, write and execute for all the users including 
the owner of the file, a member of the file’s group who is not the owner, and 
for a user who is not in the file’s group.

And the reason why after the command "ls -ld states" has been issued again 
and the states highlight in the shell is because it has the execute 
permission now and the unix treated this as a executable file, so it will 
hightlight the directories

Problem 5:
Give a grep command that will find every city containing an uppercase C.

Answer:
$ grep -F C *
The reason for this is that the -F option causes grep to do a fast matching,
while the the C argument makes it matching the cities that containing 
uppercase C. Taken together, they cause the output to appear as cities 
containing an uppercase C, which is the result asked for.

Problem 6:
Give a grep command that will find every city beginning with uppercase C.

Answer:
$ grep '^C' *
The reason for this is that the '^C' argument causes grep to display cities 
that begin with 'C', while the the ^ metacharacter set the shell as 
"line begin", and uppercase C is the argument that ^ metacharacter takes. 
Taken together, they cause the output to appear as cities beginning with 
uppercase C, which is the result asked for.


Problem 7:
Give a grep command that will find every city in California that has an 
uppercase letter in a position that is not the beginning of the line.

Answer: 
$ grep -E '.[A-Z]' California
The reason for this is that the -E option causes grep to use a full regular 
expressions, while the '.[A-Z]' argument matches the uppercase letter that 
is not the beginning of the line.Taken together, they cause the output to 
appear as cities in California that has an uppercase letter in a position 
that is not the beginning of the line. which is the result asked for.

Just to be clearer, the argument '.[A-Z]' represents jump the first character
and starting on the second character of the line. With argument [A-Z] 
represents match all the uppcase letters in the rest of the lines. 
So as the commands run, you will expect to get output with cities that has 
uppercase letters not only on the beginning of the line, but also the place 
after the beginning of the line.


Problem 8:
Give a grep command that will find every city in California that has a 
maximum of 6 contiguous lowercase letters.

Answer:
$ grep -E -v '.[a-z]{7}' California

The reason for this is that the -E option causes grep to use the full regular
expressions, while the the -v option makes it do a invert match. The argument
'.' is to jump the first character and starting at second character on the line, 
argument [a-z] is lowercase letters matching, and {7} is match 7 or more times. 
Argument California is the file we need to match for. Taken together, they 
cause the output to appear as cities in California that has a maximum of 6 
contiguous lowercase letters, which is the result asked for.

Just to be more clear, the argument '.[a-z]{7}' is doing a filtering and 
matching  7 or more contiguous lowercase letters, and option -v is the core 
idea of this command, it represents doing a inverse match, so combine these 
we could get the maximum of 6 contiguous lowercase letters, which is the 
result asked for.